Hi and welcome back in this video we're going to be creating the menu.
And also we're going to be finalizing our app.
I've written a quick outline for what the menu might do.
First ask for the user's name and check if they have a file for them.
If they do have a file welcome them and load the data from that file and if not create a user object
for them.
Then we give them a list of options such as add a movie.
See a list of movies.
Set a movie or watched the leading movie by name on see List of watched movies.
Finally we'll also let them save their data to a file and quit the file names are going to be equal
to the users names and the will to do that.
Just so we can identify the user quickly whether they exist or not.
The first line.
You know how to do.
Ask for a user's name.
We can use the input method.
So go ahead and write a line that asks the user for their name.
This would be input into your name and this would allow the user to enter their name and that would
get saved in the variable name.
As we know then we're going to check if a file exists for a user and the file name is going to be dropped
here.
The format name and what we want to do is check if the file exists.
So just like Jose doc DXP we want to check if that file exists.
So if file exists finally pass pass just means do nothing.
As you know and we're going to create this file exists method
and the way to check whether a file exists or not is using the OS module the OS library.
So we're going to see return OS path exists.
So why is file file name.
We have to import os and that's the way we would check for whether something is a file or not.
If it's not a file it means it doesn't exist or it's a directory folder.
OK we've got that.
So if the file exists we want to say user is user dot from Jason.
Jason data and the Jayson data is going to be Jason.
Data equals Jason dot load.
We have to import the Egyptian model and the Jewson load method takes in a file pointer which is with
open file name as read that's if to that with F. OK.
As you can see I worked backwards in there because I knew what I wanted the user to do and the rest
kind of just came naturally.
I wanted to create a user from Jason with some JS and data and that Jewson data had to be loaded naturally
and to load it I need the file pointer which prompted me to create this with construct and that means
I didn't need to know exactly what I was going to do from the beginning.
I didn't need to know how to open the file and then load the data and then open the user up.
I just wanted to get data in there and that prompted me to think about previous steps as well.
There is no correct way to do programming.
Just whatever works for you.
We also naturally have to import user.
So let's do that.
That's what we've done here.
And if the user does not exist Elle's user is going to be a new user with name which is the name they
give us here.
OK and then we give them a list of options.
The list of options are going to be print or import enter a to add movie X to see movies.
See the list of movies w to set a movie I watched D2 deletes a movie am able to see the list of watched
movies and I know you guys can't see this very well in Michigan and do that
or q to save and quit there we go.
Well a lot of options we're giving our users
now came and now we have to be able to deal with these options naturally.
So user input is going to be that.
And then if user input equals a then we're going to do something.
Whoops.
If user input equals s We're going to use something else.
W d l.
Q These are the options and not really the user can only do one of them.
So if she'd be the first if the others are going to be Elif
that's it.
And that's what we're going to be asking the user.
So if the user input is a we want to add a new movies or we'll say user dot add movie name genre and
we need to ask the user for the name or genre movie name movie name because name is already used up
there.
So I'm gonna call it different the movie name is input into the movie name movie Jonah equals input
into that movie genre
and that's it.
So that's how we would add a movie if they type s they want to see a list of movies.
So we are going to print a list of movies for movie in use in movies print
name not genre that watched quite a simple way to print things out isn't it.
Movie don't name movie star John-Roger movie don't watch it.
Simple enough.
That's how we would print out a list of movies w to set the movie watched.
So we'll say OK we want to set a specific movie as having been watched and we don't have a way to do
that in the User class so we'll have to create that will say movie name in put into the movie name to
set at watched and then we'll see user set watched movie name.
We're going to have to create that.
So let's go into the user and say they have sent watched name.
And here we will simply iterate over the movies find the one that has that name and set be watched.
Too true.
And this is something that you can do.
You can iterate over the movies if the movie name matches this name sets the movie's named two watched
the movies watched to true.
Sorry I'm going mental here.
OK.
I'm sure you were able to do that for movie in self movies if movie don't name equally cool name movie
don't watch it is true.
That's what that does.
Iterate over the movies.
And then if the movie's name is equal to the name that we are passing in then we set the watch to troop
so that will now work.
D to the lead a movie movie name equals input into the movie name to delete user delete.
Movies with movie name.
And we've already got this method so that we just work l to see a list of watched movies.
And here I'm just going to copy what was in S which is a list of movies but instead of using movies
I'm going to say user dot watched movies.
That.
Finally the queue to save in Kuwait and here we're going to have to save the user to the file.
So what we'll do is with open
the same file as before.
Finally file name in w this time pass f f Jason.
Don't dump user on Jason that that's on the way.
Use it on Jason and that'll just dump the users Jason into f.
Which is the file that we've opened in write mode.
And that's everything except for the fact that this is only going to run once we're going to start here
the top we're going to ask the user for their input and then we're going to run doing one of these things
and then we're going to.
And so what we want to do is run this many times.
So while I am user input
is not who will do this.
And at the end we're going to have to ask the user once again for their input.
And now this is a small problem that this is going to cause.
But see if you can spot what problem might arise if we do this.
We're going to ask the user for input while the input is not.
Q We're going to do a s w d a rail
if the input is.
Q This is not going to run.
This is not going to run which means this will never happen.
And that's where the problem was.
So we need a different way to run this.
And the way is that we might as well always save for the user it's just a better way of doing things
instead of asking the user to save and quit.
We can always save and then the user will never lose their date.
The problem without the obvious caveat is that if they delete their movies by accident and we overwrite
them then they will be mad.
But the other obvious option is to add an S for Save and a Q to quit and we can also do that.
So you can choose what you want to do.
We can just always save by putting this at the end of the method or we can add an S option to save if
you wanted to add to the option to save and
q to quit.
But
that would be an option if this were s we could save but as is already used.
So I'm going to use
F for files that are stretching the imagination a bit.
But you know we could do this or as I mentioned we can just put this at the very end of the method and
then it will always run.
That's another option.
But if we use Q That will never run when needed.
Q So that wouldn't really work
without that.
Let's save that and run it and then it gets to us.
My name I'm going to put in another name because Jose got TXI he doesn't have adjacent file so I'm going
to put something else Roth and I get a really long string here of options.
I'm going to type a two hour movie The Matrix cipher and then I'm going to save with F and then I'm
going to quit and then I'm going to play again with the same name.
What is how Rowlf that has been created up there.
And now I'm going to see a list of movies and I get the Matrix which is what I wrote earlier.
And this is how you can write a pretty useful app to be honest.
OK some of the most useful thing in the world but this will persist to your data and will let you to
let you interact with the app with a command line.
Save things to a file but you add movies in there and I'm sure you can find plenty more uses for this
sort of flow if you wish.
And now the part I like the least about this.
There are two parts.
The first is writing a menu.
It just feels really ugly and unclean.
And we we get to that later on.
And the other thing I don't like is the use of files and we have a lot of files that potentially we
have a lot of users we have a lot of files and that's just not very nice naturally.
Using a database is better and we will get to that very soon as well.
After all the Course is about Python and possed Gras postchaise is one of the best if not the best relational
database system.
So we're not we are going to get into saving things to our database base very soon.
But congratulations on reaching the end of this section.
We have created a very nice app that lets us create users create movies and save them.
And there's a fair amount of interaction between them and now we can we can move on into the next section
.
So I'm pretty excited for that and I'll see you in the next video.